INSTALL.md, before:

## How to set up Wannabe on your server

This page explains how to set up Wannabe on you personal or local server for development proposes. (Tested on Ubuntu 14.04)
Currently only tested on in production on php5, but should work fairly well with php7.

### Install required packages
```
$ sudo apt-get install apache2 php5 mysql-server git gettext php5-mysql php5-mcrypt php5-gd
$ sudo a2enmod rewrite
```

### Clone git repo into your home folder
```
$ cd /var/www/html && git clone git@github.com:gathering/wannabe.git
$ cd wannabe
```

### Setup database

First create the database and a user
```
$ mysql -u root -p
mysql> CREATE DATABASE wannabe;
mysql> CREATE USER 'wannabe'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'wannabe';
mysql> GRANT ALL ON wannabe.* TO 'wannabe'@'localhost';
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
mysql> QUIT
```

Install python-pip and mysql framework and run the migration

```
$ sudo apt-get install python-dev libmysqlclient-dev python-pip
$ pip install -r migrate/requirements.txt
$ cp migrate/db-config.examples.sh migrate/db-config.sh
$ vim migrate/db-config.sh
$ cp migrate/.simple-db-migrate.example.conf migrate/.simple-db-migrate.conf
$ vim migrate/.simple-db-migrate.conf
$ cd migrate && sh migrate.sh && cd ..
 
# Lastly configure wannabe to connect to that database

$ cp app/Config/database.sample.php app/Config/database.php
$ vim app/Config/database.php

# Edit the following lines:
'login' => 'wannabe',
'password' => 'wannabe',
'database' => 'wannabe',
```

### Development configuration

Edit the configuration file

```
$ cp app/Config/core.example.php app/Config/core.php
$ vim app/Config/core.php
  
# Change the following lines:
Configure::write('debug', 1);
session.cookie_domain' => '.domain.com' // Leave blank if localhost
```

### Custom configuration options

#### AUTH_COOKIE_KEY

Populate this environment variable with random string to activate "Remember me"
functionality. This key is used as encryption key for the "Remember me" cookie
containing users credentials, so be sure it's long and random.

Sessions will still be held for about 1 week according to CakePHP session/cookie
config, but will not automatically re-login user when it expires.

### Create cache and files upload folders
These folder are required for caching and image uploads (even if cache it not in use)
```
$ mkdir app/tmp
$ mkdir app/tmp/sessions
$ mkdir app/tmp/logs
$ mkdir app/tmp/tests
$ mkdir app/tmp/cache app/tmp/cache/{persistent,models,assets}
$ chmod -R 777 app/tmp
$ mkdir app/webroot/files
$ chmod 777 app/webroot/files
```

### Edit apache configuration for the development site
Start with editing the apache default configuration file


**/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf**
```
<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerAdmin email@domain.org
DocumentRoot /var/www/html/wannabe/app/webroot
<Directory />
Options FollowSymLinks
AllowOverride All
</Directory>
<Directory /var/www/html/wannabe>
Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride All
Order allow,deny
allow from all
</Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

Edit php.ini to allow `short_open_tag`

**/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini**

`short_open_tag = On`

Finally restart apache2

`$ sudo service apache2 restart`


### Create a new event
1. Make sure you have cake in path

`echo 'export PATH="/var/www/html/wannabe/lib/Cake/Console:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bashrc`

2. Go to the app-folder
3. Run `cake event` and follow the instructions (the default user is UID 1)

If `cake event` returns ": No such file or directory" try "dos2unix /var/www/html/wannabe/lib/Cake/Console/cake"

#### Default login:
```
User: dev
Pass: gramofon
```

Commit message:

Update nginx and env related config

INSTALL.md, after:

## How to set up Wannabe on your server

This page explains how to set up Wannabe on you personal or local server for development proposes. (Tested on Ubuntu 14.04)
Currently only tested on in production on php5, but should work fairly well with php7.

### Install required packages
```
$ sudo apt-get install apache2 php5 mysql-server git gettext php5-mysql php5-mcrypt php5-gd
$ sudo a2enmod rewrite
```

### Clone git repo into your home folder
```
$ cd /var/www/html && git clone git@github.com:gathering/wannabe.git
$ cd wannabe
```

### Setup database

First create the database and a user
```
$ mysql -u root -p
mysql> CREATE DATABASE wannabe;
mysql> CREATE USER 'wannabe'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'wannabe';
mysql> GRANT ALL ON wannabe.* TO 'wannabe'@'localhost';
mysql> FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
mysql> QUIT
```

Install python-pip and mysql framework and run the migration

```
$ sudo apt-get install python-dev libmysqlclient-dev python-pip
$ pip install -r migrate/requirements.txt
$ cp migrate/db-config.examples.sh migrate/db-config.sh
$ vim migrate/db-config.sh
$ cp migrate/.simple-db-migrate.example.conf migrate/.simple-db-migrate.conf
$ vim migrate/.simple-db-migrate.conf
$ cd migrate && sh migrate.sh && cd ..
 
# Lastly configure wannabe to connect to that database

$ cp app/Config/database.sample.php app/Config/database.php
$ vim app/Config/database.php

# Edit the following lines:
'login' => 'wannabe',
'password' => 'wannabe',
'database' => 'wannabe',
```

### Development configuration

Edit the configuration file

```
$ cp app/Config/core.example.php app/Config/core.php
$ vim app/Config/core.php
  
# Change the following lines:
Configure::write('debug', 1);
session.cookie_domain' => '.domain.com' // Leave blank if localhost
```

### Custom configuration options

#### AUTH_COOKIE_KEY

Populate this environment variable with random string to activate "Remember me"
functionality. This key is used as encryption key for the "Remember me" cookie
containing users credentials, so be sure it's long and random.

Sessions will still be held for about 1 week according to CakePHP session/cookie
config, but will not automatically re-login user when it expires.

#### URL_SIGN_SECRET

Setting this to a value allows wannabe to sign urls. Making sure only urls
generated by us are valid, and that we can specify an expiration date. In the
default docker setup, nginx is configured to expect this for all profile
images.

### Create cache and files upload folders
These folder are required for caching and image uploads (even if cache it not in use)
```
$ mkdir app/tmp
$ mkdir app/tmp/sessions
$ mkdir app/tmp/logs
$ mkdir app/tmp/tests
$ mkdir app/tmp/cache app/tmp/cache/{persistent,models,assets}
$ chmod -R 777 app/tmp
$ mkdir app/webroot/files
$ chmod 777 app/webroot/files
```

### Edit apache configuration for the development site
Start with editing the apache default configuration file


**/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default.conf**
```
<VirtualHost *:80>
ServerAdmin email@domain.org
DocumentRoot /var/www/html/wannabe/app/webroot
<Directory />
Options FollowSymLinks
AllowOverride All
</Directory>
<Directory /var/www/html/wannabe>
Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
AllowOverride All
Order allow,deny
allow from all
</Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

Edit php.ini to allow `short_open_tag`

**/etc/php5/apache2/php.ini**

`short_open_tag = On`

Finally restart apache2

`$ sudo service apache2 restart`


### Create a new event
1. Make sure you have cake in path

`echo 'export PATH="/var/www/html/wannabe/lib/Cake/Console:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc && source ~/.bashrc`

2. Go to the app-folder
3. Run `cake event` and follow the instructions (the default user is UID 1)

If `cake event` returns ": No such file or directory" try "dos2unix /var/www/html/wannabe/lib/Cake/Console/cake"

#### Default login:
```
User: dev
Pass: gramofon
```
